## The layers of the Clean Architecture implementation

Android Clean Architecture consists of several layers, each of which serves a specific purpose and
is separated from the others to promote separation of concerns, maintain separation between the
different parts of the system and allow the development, testing, and deployment of each part
independently.

### The Domain layer

This is the core layer of the architecture, which contains the business logic and the use cases of
the app. It defines the interactions between the different components of the system, but it does not
contain any implementation details, such as how the data is stored or how it is displayed on the
screen. The Domain layer communicates with the other layers through interfaces, which are defined in
this layer.

### The Presentation layer

This layer is responsible for presenting the data to the user and receiving user input. It is the
intermediary between the Domain layer and the UI layer. The Presentation layer communicates with the
Domain layer through the use of interactors, which are classes that implement the use cases defined
in the Domain layer. The Presentation layer also contains the view models, which are responsible for
transforming the data received from the Domain layer into a format that is suitable for display on
the screen.

### The User Interface (UI) layer

This layer contains the activities, fragments, and other UI components that make up the app's
interface. The UI layer communicates with the Presentation layer through the use of the view models,
which provide the data that is displayed on the screen.

### The Data layer

This layer contains the components that are responsible for accessing and storing the data that is
used by the app. This layer communicates with the Domain layer through the use of repositories,
which provide a single point of access to the data, regardless of where the data is stored.

### The Data Source layer

This layer contains the concrete implementations of the data sources, such as a database, a REST
API, or a shared preference. The Data Source layer communicates with the Data layer through the use
of the data sources, which provide the data to the repositories.

### Navigation

The Navigation layer is responsible for handling the navigation between the different screens in the
app. It helps to decouple the navigation logic from the UI layer and makes it easier to manage the
navigation flow within the app.

In summary, the different layers of Android Clean Architecture provide a clear separation between
the different components of the app, making it easier to maintain and test the app. By following a
clean architecture approach, you can ensure that your app is scalable, maintainable, and testable.



https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html